
# Sssom schema


Datamodel for Simple Standard for Sharing Ontology Mappings (SSSOM)


### Classes

 * [Entity](Entity.md) - Represents any entity that can be mapped, such as an OWL class or SKOS concept
 * [Mapping](Mapping.md) - Represents an individual mapping between a pair of entities
 * [MappingSet](MappingSet.md) - Represents a set of mappings

### Mixins


### Slots

 * [comment](comment.md) - Free text field containing either curator notes or text generated by tool providing additional informative information.
 * [confidence](confidence.md) - A score between 0 and 1 to denote the confidence or probability that the match is correct, where 1 denotes total confidence.
 * [creator_id](creator_id.md) - Identifies the persons or groups responsible for the creation of the mapping. Recommended to be a (pipe-separated) list of ORCIDs or otherwise identifying URLs, but any identifying string (such as name and affiliation) is permissible.
 * [creator_label](creator_label.md) - A string identifying the creator of this mapping. In the spirit of provenance, consider to use creator_id instead.
 * [entity_field](entity_field.md) - grouping for normalized fields for entities
     * [category](category.md) - category of the entity. Could be biolink, COB, etc
     * [label](label.md) - label of an entity
     * [source](source.md) - the database or ontology prefix of the entity
 * [equivalent_property](equivalent_property.md) - SSSOM property should be mapped to:
 * [id](id.md) - CURIE or IRI identifier
 * [information_content_mica_score](information_content_mica_score.md) - A score between 0 and 1 to denote the information content of the most informative common ancestor, where 1 denotes the maximum level of informativeness.
 * [license](license.md) - A url to the license of the mapping. In absence of a license we assume no license.
 * [mapping_cardinality](mapping_cardinality.md) - A string indicating whether this mapping is from a 1:1 (the subject_id maps to a single object_id), 1:n (the subject maps to more than one object_id), n:1, 1:0, 0:1 or n:n group. Note that this is a convenience field that should be derivable from the mapping set.
 * [mapping_date](mapping_date.md) - The date the mapping was computed
 * [mapping_provider](mapping_provider.md) - URL pointing to the source that provided the mapping, for example an ontology that already contains the mappings.
 * [mapping_set_id](mapping_set_id.md) - A globally unique identifier for the mapping set (not each individual mapping). Should be IRI, ideally resolvable.
 * [mapping_set_version](mapping_set_version.md) - A version string for the mapping.
 * [mapping_tool](mapping_tool.md) - A reference to the tool or algorithm that was used to generate the mapping. Should be a URL pointing to more info about it, but can be free text.
 * [mappings](mappings.md) - Contains a list of mapping objects
 * [match_string](match_string.md) - String that is shared by subj/obj
 * [match_term_type](match_term_type.md) - Specifies what type of terms are being matched (class, property, or individual). Value should be ID from Term Match (SSSOM:TermMatch) branch of the SSSSOM Vocabulary.
 * [match_type](match_type.md) - ID from Match type (SSSOM:MatchType) branch of the SSSSOM Vocabulary. In the case of multiple match types for a single subject, predicate, object triplet, two seperate mappings must be specified.
 * [metadata_element](metadata_element.md) - All legal SSSOM metadata elements are subproperties of this.
 * [object_category](object_category.md) - The conceptual category to which the subject belongs to. This can be a string denoting the category or a term from a controlled vocabulary.
 * [object_field](object_field.md) - denormalized field representing aspect of a object
 * [object_id](object_id.md) - The ID of the object of the mapping.
 * [object_label](object_label.md) - The label of object of the mapping
 * [object_match_field](object_match_field.md) - A tuple of fields (term annotations on the object) that was used for the match. Should be used in conjunction with lexical and complexes matches, see SSSOM match types below.
 * [object_preprocessing](object_preprocessing.md) - Method of preprocessing applied to the fields of the object. Tuple of IDs from “Pre-processing method” (SSSOM:PreprocessingMethod) branch of the SSSSOM Vocabulary.
 * [object_source](object_source.md) - IRI of ontology source for the object. Version IRI preferred.
 * [object_source_version](object_source_version.md) - Version IRI of the source of the object term.
 * [other](other.md) - Pipe separated list of key value pairs for properties not part of the SSSOM spec. Can be used to encode additional provenance data.
 * [predicate_id](predicate_id.md) - The ID of the predicate or relation that relates the subject and object of this match.
 * [predicate_label](predicate_label.md) - The label of the predicate/relation of the mapping
 * [rdf_example](rdf_example.md) - An example value of the a SSSOM element in the TSV file.
 * [required](required.md) - Indicates wether the SSSOM metadata element is required
 * [scope](scope.md) - Indicates whether the metadata element has local, global or local-global scope.
 * [see_also](see_also.md) - A URL specific for the mapping instance. E.g. for kboom we have a per-mapping image that shows surrounding axioms that drive probability. Could also be a github issue URL that discussed a complicated alignment
 * [semantic_similarity_score](semantic_similarity_score.md) - A score between 0 and 1 to denote the semantic similarity, where 1 denotes equivalence.
 * [subject_category](subject_category.md) - The conceptual category to which the subject belongs to. This can be a string denoting the category or a term from a controlled vocabulary.
 * [subject_field](subject_field.md) - denormalized field representing aspect of a subject
 * [subject_id](subject_id.md) - The ID of the subject of the mapping.
 * [subject_label](subject_label.md) - The label of subject of the mapping
 * [subject_match_field](subject_match_field.md) - A tuple of fields (term annotations on the subject) that was used for the match. Should be used in conjunction with lexical and complexes matches, see SSSOM match types below.
 * [subject_preprocessing](subject_preprocessing.md) - Method of preprocessing applied to the fields of the subject. Tuple of IDs from "Pre-processing method" (SSSOM:PreprocessingMethod) branch of the SSSSOM Vocabulary.
 * [subject_source](subject_source.md) - IRI of ontology source for the subject. Version IRI preferred.
 * [subject_source_version](subject_source_version.md) - Version IRI of the source of the subject term.
 * [tsv_example](tsv_example.md) - An example value of the a SSSOM element in RDF.

### Types


#### Built in

 * **Bool**
 * **Decimal**
 * **ElementIdentifier**
 * **NCName**
 * **NodeIdentifier**
 * **URI**
 * **URIorCURIE**
 * **XSDDate**
 * **XSDDateTime**
 * **XSDTime**
 * **float**
 * **int**
 * **str**

#### Defined

 * [Boolean](types/Boolean.md)  (**Bool**)  - A binary (true or false) value
 * [Date](types/Date.md)  (**XSDDate**)  - a date (year, month and day) in an idealized calendar
 * [Datetime](types/Datetime.md)  (**XSDDateTime**)  - The combination of a date and time
 * [Decimal](types/Decimal.md)  (**Decimal**)  - A real number with arbitrary precision that conforms to the xsd:decimal specification
 * [Double](types/Double.md)  (**float**)  - A real number that conforms to the xsd:double specification
 * [Float](types/Float.md)  (**float**)  - A real number that conforms to the xsd:float specification
 * [Integer](types/Integer.md)  (**int**)  - An integer
 * [Ncname](types/Ncname.md)  (**NCName**)  - Prefix part of CURIE
 * [Nodeidentifier](types/Nodeidentifier.md)  (**NodeIdentifier**)  - A URI, CURIE or BNODE that represents a node in a model.
 * [Objectidentifier](types/Objectidentifier.md)  (**ElementIdentifier**)  - A URI or CURIE that represents an object in the model.
 * [String](types/String.md)  (**str**)  - A character string
 * [Time](types/Time.md)  (**XSDTime**)  - A time object represents a (local) time of day, independent of any particular day
 * [Uri](types/Uri.md)  (**URI**)  - a complete URI
 * [Uriorcurie](types/Uriorcurie.md)  (**URIorCURIE**)  - a URI or a CURIE
